Introduction
============

Ignition is a research code for defining domain specific languages useful for
high performance computing (HPC).  The goal of the project is to lower the
barriers-of-entry for non-experts who want to use the power of the HPC
resources.


-----------------
Current languages
-----------------

Currently, the project has a reference language and generator for integral
equations, called IntGen.  We are also working on an automation engine for the
FLAME project that includes dense and sparse linear algebra methods.

IntGen
------

While it may be well known among HPC experts integration routines are often
much more difficult to make fast than a simple loop.  IntGen offers a simple
implementation of one dimensional integration.  It is a reference to how a
domain specific language can be used to speed up numerical code.

Using IntGen's expressions a user defines an integration expression that can
combine both symbolics and discrete functions.  From this integration
expression, code generated is generated that efficiently evaluates the integral
and provides the user with quadrature points and weight according to the
specification given by the user.

As the project grows, IntGen may grow to do more but currently it is left to be
simple allowing for novices to understand the basics of how Ignition implements
DSL's and code generators.

FLAME
-----

`FLAME`_, or Formal Linear Algebra Methods Environment, is a project for
transforming the development of dense linear algebra libraries from an art
reserved for experts to a science that can be understood by novice and expert
alike.  Using a simple language for defining loops, the algorithms are formally
derived and allow for numerous variants to be produced.

Ignition defines a language for specifying FLAME operation and generating the
worksheets and code.  These operations are still under development.

------
Future
------

In the future we hope to add more application areas to the project.  The next
area of interest will most likely be finite element algorithms.


.. _FLAME: http://z.cs.utexas.edu/wiki/flame.wiki/FrontPage
